---
layout: post
title: What brought me here?
description: "CIU 110 Blog Post #1"
tags: [CIU, Blog, SAE]
image:
  feature: /2016/ZRH/swiss_head.jpg
  
  
---

Fall Out Boy is a creator in media that has inspired me to take up audio as my chosen field. I remember years ago when I first heard their album, “From Under a Cork Tree” I was simply amazed by it and generally just enjoyed it. At first, I gave no thought as to why I enjoyed so much. When I started getting into audio as an interest rather than a career, I listened to the album again and found myself critically listening to it. Almost all songs have similar structure to it, musically and composition-wise. They all have different verses and a chorus. They all are played on different instruments that consistently provides a rhythm to the song itself. What stood out to me was not the lyrics of the song, but how everything sounded together. The album has a full drum kit, bass guitar, two electric guitars, and three vocals. Just thinking of this and listening to the album, I am surprised I didn’t find it overwhelming. There is so much going on with all sorts of sound. Yet, the way everything was mixed left each sound a certain place to sit. For example, with two electric guitars and different tones, it can be hard to differentiate. Panning was used to help separate the two. A simple technique where sound is biased towards either the left or the right side. You can hear in certain songs in the album where there is a main guitar coming from both sides, as well as a rhythmic guitar siting further back on the right side. Another instrument would be the bass guitar. Often times you don’t really hear the bass guitar because it sits nicely at the back. Once you get rid of it, the song would just sound off and something is missing. The bass guitar helps fills in the gap and carries the song as it progresses.   The ability to manipulate all these different sound to work with each other is something I am greatly interested in. I hear the product as a consumer, but I want to know how is it done. Neal Avron is the man behind the album. He produced the album and I guess he is who really inspires me. He doesn’t limit himself to one genre of music, but a whole selection. The artists are his client and he has the responsibility to produce what the clients want. He is also noted to have a particular recording technique in which he records the drum and rhythm guitars first, as opposed to drum and bass. His reasoning for this was that it was harder to hear if it was in tune because it plays lower frequency. So by having a higher frequency to compare it to helps him hear if it is in tune. It clearly has worked as he has worked on countless award-winning songs.
